Security analysts and the organizations
they work with have to be proactive about protecting
systems from attack. This is where security hardening comes in. Security hardening is the process of
strengthening a system to reduce its vulnerability and attack surface. All the potential vulnerabilities
that a threat actor could exploit are referred to as
a system's attack surface. Let's use an example that
compares a network to a house. The attack surface would
be all the doors and windows that a robber could use
to gain access to that house. Just like putting locks on all
the doors and windows in the house, security hardening involves
minimizing the attack surface or potential vulnerabilities and
keeping a network as secure as possible. As part of security hardening, security
analysts perform regular maintenance procedures to keep network devices and
systems functioning securely and optimally. Security hardening can be
conducted on any device or system that can be compromised,
such as hardware, operating systems, applications, computer networks, and
databases. Physical security is also
a part of security hardening. This may include securing a physical space
with security cameras and security guards. Some common types of hardening
procedures include software updates, also called patches, and
device application configuration changes. These updates and
changes are done to increase security and fix security vulnerabilities on a network. An example of a security configuration
change would be requiring longer passwords or
more frequent password changes. This makes it harder for a malicious
actor to gain login credentials. An example of a configuration check is
updating the encryption standards for data that is stored in a database. Keeping encryption up to
date makes it harder for malicious actors to access the database. Other examples of security
hardening include removing or disabling unused applications and
services, disabling unused ports, and reducing access permissions
across devices and network. Minimizing the number of applications,
devices, ports, and access permissions makes network and device monitoring more
efficient and reduces the overall attack surface, which is one of the best
ways to secure an organization. Another important strategy for security hardening is to conduct
regular penetration testing. A penetration test, also called a pen test,
is a simulated attack that helps identify vulnerabilities in a system, network,
website, application, and process. Penetration testers document
their findings in a report. Depending on where the test fails,
security teams can determine the type of security vulnerabilities
that require fixing. Organizations can then review
these vulnerabilities and come up with a plan to fix them. Coming up, you'll learn more about how
security hardening is an essential aspect of securing networks. It's a foundational part of
network security that strengthens the network in order to reduce
the number of successful attacks.