While frameworks
are used to create plans to address security risks, threats, and vulnerabilities, controls are used to
reduce specific risks. If proper controls
are not in place, an organization could face
significant financial impacts and damage to their reputation because of exposure to risks including trespassing, creating
fake employee accounts, or providing free benefits. Let's review the
definition of controls. Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce
specific security risks. In this video, we'll
discuss three common types of controls: encryption, authentication,
and authorization. Encryption is the process
of converting data from a readable format
to an encoded format. Typically, encryption
involves converting data from plaintext
to ciphertext. Ciphertext is the
raw, encoded message that's unreadable to
humans and computers. Ciphertext data cannot
be read until it's been decrypted into its
original plaintext form. Encryption is used to ensure confidentiality of
sensitive data, such as customers'
account information or social security numbers. Another control that
can be used to protect sensitive data is
authentication. Authentication is the process of verifying who someone
or something is. A real-world example
of authentication is logging into a website with
your username and password. This basic form of
authentication proves that you know the username and password and should be allowed
to access the website. More advanced methods
of authentication, such as multi-factor
authentication, or MFA, challenge the user to demonstrate that they
are who they claim to be by requiring both a password and an additional form
of authentication, like a security
code or biometrics, such as a fingerprint, voice, or face scan. Biometrics are unique
physical characteristics that can be used to verify
a person's identity. Examples of biometrics
are a fingerprint, an eye scan, or a palm scan. One example of a social
engineering attack that can exploit
biometrics is vishing. Vishing is the exploitation of electronic voice
communication to obtain sensitive information or to impersonate a known source. For example, vishing could
be used to impersonate a person's voice to steal their identity and
then commit a crime. Another very important security
control is authorization. Authorization refers
to the concept of granting access to specific
resources within a system. Essentially, authorization
is used to verify that a person has permission
to access a resource. As an example, if
you're working as an entry-level security analyst for the federal government, you could have
permission to access data through the deep web or other internal data that is only accessible if you're
a federal employee. The security controls
we discussed today are only one element of a core security model
known as the CIA triad. Coming up, we'll talk more
about this model and how security teams use it to
protect their organizations.