Hello again!
I'm excited you're here. We have so much to discuss. Previously, we covered the uses and benefits of the NIST CSF. In this video, we'll
focus specifically on the five core functions of
the NIST CSF framework. Let's get started. NIST CSF focuses on five
core functions: identify, protect, detect,
respond, and recover. These core functions help organizations manage
cybersecurity risks, implement risk
management strategies, and learn from
previous mistakes. Basically, when it comes
to security operations, NIST CSF functions are key for making sure
an organization is protected against
potential threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. So let's take a little
time to explore how each function can be used to improve an
organization's security. The first core function is identify, which is related
to the management of cybersecurity risk
and its effect on an organization's
people and assets. For example, as a
security analyst, you may be asked to monitor
systems and devices in your organization's internal
network to identify potential security issues The second core function is
protect, which is the strategy used to protect an organization through the implementation
of policies, procedures, training, and tools that help mitigate
cybersecurity threats. For example, as a
security analyst, you and your team
might encounter new and unfamiliar
threats and attacks. For this reason, studying
historical data and making improvements to policies and procedures is essential. The third core function
is detect, which means identifying potential
security incidents and improving monitoring
capabilities to increase the speed and
efficiency of detections. For example, as an analyst, you might be asked to review a new security tool's setup to
make sure it's flagging low, medium, or high risk, and then alerting the
security team about any potential threats
or incidents. The fourth function is
respond, which means making sure that the proper procedures
are used to contain, neutralize, and analyze security
incidents, and implement improvements
to the security process. As an analyst, you could be working with a team
to collect and organize data to document
an incident and suggest improvements to processes to prevent the incident
from happening again. The fifth core function is recover, which is the process of returning affected systems
back to normal operation. For example, as an
entry-level security analyst, you might work with
your security team to restore systems, data, and assets, such as financial or legal
files, that have been affected by an
incident like a breach. We've covered a lot of
information in this video. Hopefully, it helped you understand the value
of learning about the NIST CSF and its
five core functions. From proactive to reactive
measures, all five functions are essential for making sure
that an organization has effective security
strategies in place. Security incidents
are going to happen, but an organization must have the ability to
quickly recover from any damage caused by an incident to minimize their level of risk. Coming up, we'll discuss security principles that
work hand-in-hand with NIST frameworks
and the CIA triad to help protect critical
data and assets.