It's important to
understand how to protect an organization's
data and assets because that will be part of your role as a security analyst. Fortunately, there
are principles and guidelines that can
be used, along with NIST frameworks and
the CIA triad, to help security teams
minimize threats and risks. In this video, we'll
explore some Open Web Application Security
Project, or OWASP, security principles that are useful to know as an
entry-level analyst. The first OWASP principle is to minimize the attack
surface area. An attack surface refers to all the potential
vulnerabilities that a threat actor
could exploit, like attack vectors,
which are pathways attackers use to penetrate
security defenses. Examples of common
attack vectors are phishing emails and
weak passwords. To minimize the attack surface and avoid incidents
from these types of vectors, security teams might
disable software features, restrict who can access
certain assets, or establish more complex
password requirements. The principle of least privilege means making sure
that users have the least amount of access required to perform
their everyday tasks. The main reason for
limiting access to organizational
information and resources is to
reduce the amount of damage a security
breach could cause. For example, as an
entry-level analyst, you may have access to log data, but may not have access to
change user permissions. Therefore, if a threat actor compromises
your credentials, they'll only be able to gain limited access to digital
or physical assets, which may not be
enough for them to deploy their intended attack. The next principle we'll
discuss is defense in depth. Defense in depth means that
an organization should have multiple security controls that address risks and threats
in different ways. One example of a
security control is multi-factor
authentication, or MFA, which requires users to take an additional step beyond simply entering their username and password to gain access
to an application. Other controls
include firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and permission
settings that can be used to create multiple
points of defense, a threat actor must get through to breach an organization. Another principle is
separation of duties, which can be used to
prevent individuals from carrying out fraudulent
or illegal activities. This principle means that
no one should be given so many privileges that
they can misuse the system. For example, the person
in a company who signs the paychecks shouldn't also be the person who prepares them. Only two more principles
to go! You're doing great. Keep security simple is the next principle.
As the name suggests, when implementing
security controls, unnecessarily complicated
solutions should be avoided because they
can become unmanageable. The more complex the
security controls are, the harder it is for people
to work collaboratively. The last principle is to fix
security issues correctly. Technology is a great tool, but can also present challenges. When a security incident occurs, security professionals
are expected to identify the root cause quickly. From there, it's
important to correct any identified
vulnerabilities and conduct tests to ensure that
repairs are successful. An example of an issue
is a weak password to access an organization's wifi because it could
lead to a breach. To fix this type
of security issue, stricter password policies
could be put in place. I know we've covered a lot, but understanding these
principles increases your overall security knowledge and can help you stand out
as a security professional.