As you might remember from
earlier in the program, the National Institute of
Standards and Technology, NIST, provides many
frameworks that are used by security professionals to manage risks, threats, and
vulnerabilities. In this video, we're
going to focus on NIST's Risk Management
Framework or RMF. As an entry-level analyst, you may not engage in
all of these steps, but it's important to be
familiar with this framework. Having a solid
foundational understanding of how to mitigate
and manage risks can set yourself apart from
other candidates as you begin your job search in
the field of security. There are seven steps in the
RMF: prepare, categorize, select, implement, assess,
authorize, and monitor. Let's start with
Step one, prepare. Prepare refers to activities
that are necessary to manage security and privacy risks
before a breach occurs. As an entry-level analyst, you'll likely use this step
to monitor for risks and identify controls that can be
used to reduce those risks. Step two is categorize, which is used to develop risk management
processes and tasks. Security professionals then
use those processes and develop tasks by thinking
about how the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of systems and information
can be impacted by risk. As an entry-level analyst, you'll need to be able
to understand how to follow the
processes established by your organization
to reduce risks to critical assets, such as
private customer information. Step three is select. Select means to
choose, customize, and capture documentation of the controls that
protect an organization. An example of the select
step would be keeping a playbook up-to-date
or helping to manage other documentation
that allows you and your team to address
issues more efficiently. Step four is to implement security and privacy plans
for the organization. Having good plans in
place is essential for minimizing the impact of
ongoing security risks. For example, if you
notice a pattern of employees constantly
needing password resets, implementing a change to password requirements may
help solve this issue. Step five is assess. Assess means to determine if established controls are
implemented correctly. An organization always wants to operate as
efficiently as possible. So it's essential to
take the time to analyze whether the
implemented protocols, procedures, and
controls that are in place are meeting
organizational needs. During this step,
analysts identify potential weaknesses
and determine whether the
organization's tools, procedures, controls, and protocols should be changed to better
manage potential risks. Step six is authorize. Authorize means being
accountable for the security and
privacy risks that may exist in an organization. As an analyst, the authorization step could
involve generating reports, developing plans of action, and establishing project
milestones that are aligned to your organization's
security goals. Step seven is monitor. Monitor means to be aware of
how systems are operating. Assessing and maintaining
technical operations are tasks that analysts
complete daily. Part of maintaining
a low level of risk for an organization is knowing how the
current systems support the organization's
security goals. If the systems in place
don't meet those goals, changes may be needed. Although it may not be your job to establish
these procedures, you will need to make sure they're working as
intended so that risks to the organization itself, and the people it
serves, are minimized.