Welcome back. Before
we get started, let's quickly review the
purpose of frameworks. Organizations use frameworks as a starting point to develop
plans that mitigate risks, threats, and vulnerabilities to sensitive data and assets. Fortunately, there are
organizations worldwide that create frameworks
security professionals can use to develop those plans. In this video, we'll
discuss two of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology, or NIST's frameworks
that can support ongoing security efforts for
all types of organizations, including for profit and
nonprofit businesses, as well as government agencies. While NIST is a US
based organization, the guidance it provides
can help analysts all over the world understand how to implement essential
cybersecurity practices. One NIST framework that we'll discuss throughout
the program is the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework, or CSF. The CSF is a voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk. This framework is widely
respected and essential for maintaining security
regardless of the organization you work for. The CSF consists of five important core
functions, identify, protect, detect,
respond, and recover, which we'll discuss in
detail in a future video. For now, we'll focus on how the CSF benefits
organizations and how it can be used to
protect against threats, risks, and vulnerabilities by providing a workplace example. Imagine that one
morning you receive a high-risk notification that a workstation has
been compromised. You identify the workstation, and discover that there's an unknown device
plugged into it. You block the unknown
device remotely to stop any potential threat and
protect the organization. Then you remove the
infected workstation to prevent the spread
of the damage and use tools to detect any additional
threat actor behavior and identify the unknown device. You respond by investigating the incident to determine
who used the unknown device, how the threat occurred, what was affected, and where
the attack originated. In this case, you discover
that an employee was charging their infected phone using a USB port on their work laptop. Finally, you do your best to recover any files or data that were affected and
correct any damage the threat caused to
the workstation itself. As demonstrated by
the previous example, the core functions of
the NIST CSF provide specific guidance and direction for security
professionals. This framework is used to
develop plans to handle an incident appropriately
and quickly to lower risk, protect an organization
against a threat, and mitigate any potential
vulnerabilities. The NIST CSF also expands
into the protection of the United States
federal government with NIST special publication,
or SP 800-53. It provides a unified
framework for protecting the security of
information systems within the federal government, including the
systems provided by private companies for
federal government use. The security
controls provided by this framework are
used to maintain the CIA triad for those systems
used by the government. Isn't it amazing how all of these frameworks and
controls work together. We've discussed some really
important security topics in this video that will be very useful for you as you continue your
security journey. Because they're core elements
of the security profession, the NIST CSF is a useful framework that most security professionals
are familiar with, and having an
understanding of the NIST, SP 800-53 is crucial if you have an interest in working for the US
federal government. Coming up, we'll
continue to explore the five NIST CSF functions and how organizations use them
to protect assets and data.