Next, let's learn about another kind of network attack
called IP spoofing. IP spoofing is a network attack performed when an attacker
changes the source IP of a data packet to impersonate an authorized system and
gain access to a network. In this kind of attack, the hacker is pretending
to be someone they are not so they can communicate over the network with the
target computer and get past firewall rules that may
prevent outside traffic. Some common IP spoofing
attacks are on-path attacks, replay attacks,
and smurf attacks. Let's discuss these
one at a time. An on-path attack is an attack where the malicious
actor places themselves in the middle of an
authorized connection and intercepts or alters
the data in transit. On-path attackers gain access to the network and put themselves
between two devices, like a web browser
and a web server. Then they sniff the packet information to learn the IP and MAC addresses to devices that are communicating
with each other. After they have
this information, they can pretend to be
either of these devices. Another type of attack
is a replay attack. A replay attack is a network attack performed when a malicious actor intercepts a data packet in
transit and delays it or repeats it
at another time. A delayed packet can cause connection issues between
target computers, or a malicious actor may take a network transmission
that was sent by an authorized user
and repeat it at a later time to impersonate
the authorized user. A smurf attack is
a combination of a DDoS attack and an
IP spoofing attack. The attacker sniffs an
authorized user's IP address and floods it with packets. This overwhelms the target computer and can bring down a server or
the entire network. Now that you've learned about different kinds of IP spoofing, let's talk about
how you can protect the network from this kind of attack. As you previously learned, encryption should always be
implemented so that the data in your network transfers can't be read by malicious actors. Firewalls can be configured to protect against IP spoofing. IP spoofing makes it seem like the malicious actor
is an authorized user by changing the
sender's address of the data packet to match the
target network's address. So if a firewall receives a data
packet from the internet where the sender's IP address is the same as the
private network, then the firewall will
deny the transmission since all the devices
with that IP address should already be on
the local network. You can make sure
that your firewalls configure correctly
by creating a rule to reject all incoming
traffic that has the same IP address
as the local network. That's it for IP spoofing. You've learned how IP
spoofing is used in some common attacks
like on-path attacks, replay attacks,
and smurf attacks.